Steps to Install postGreSQL locally  and deploy the application in heroku 


Steps to installing  postGreSQL locally

Creating teamFirefox database on local machine

1. CREATE ROLE firefox WITH PASSWORD 'teamfirefox';
2. ALTER ROLE firefox WITH LOGIN;
3. ALTER ROLE firefox WITH CREATEDB;
4. CREATE DATABASE rubyTest;
Access using the below command :
psql -U firefox -d rubyTest -h 127.0.0.1 -W

Steps to install postgresql package 

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib
sudo apt-get install libpq-dev

Note: The database username and password should be same as that of the database.yml file. Please setup accordingly.

Steps to deploy BoyScouts Application in Heroku 

Step 1: Create an Heroku account

Step 2: Install the heroku client using the following command
  	wget -qO- https://toolbelt.heroku.com/install-ubuntu.sh | sh  

Step 3: From the project directory, login to heroku using the following commands
        heroku login

Step 4: Create heroku app using the following heroku command
        heroku create app_name

Step 5: commit the code from the project directory to heroku using the following commands
       git add --all
       git commit -m "Final Project code" 
       git push heroku master 

Step6: The app will be deployed in heroku and can be accessed using the following link
      http://app_name.herokuapp.com
      heroku open will open our application in the web browser

If there are any issues while following the instruction to deploy, there will be instruction available on the web to deploy the app using a git repository. Only two things that are required are: This project folder  and the db.dump present 
in this folder.

Note: The data will not be present in the database in heroku. So we need to take the local DB dump and then load to the heroku application using heroku cli commands

Caution: The data from MS access provided by the customer couldn't be used directly to load the database online. Manual formating has to be done to correct the format to make it compatible with postgresql. The incompatibility is because of the comma in the data which has to be fixed manually.

We are providing the db dump (db.dump) in the project folder which can be used to load the data into heroku or local database. The db.dump is the dump of the local database


Steps to modify web interface for database:
The web interface has been developed using rails admin gem. Please refer to the rails admin DSL to modify the views.

Generating PDF's and CSV
We have used pdfkit gem to generate the PDF. But be aware of the threading issues. So use multithreaded server like unicorn instead of webrick server which is single threaded.

To start the unicorn server in local machine, execute the following command from the project directory and can be accessed at 127.0.0.1:8080 locally.
unicorn -c unicorn.conf 

Please install all the gems which are in the gem file using the following command in the project folder 
bundle install 



